README.md, before:

# Imgtool JPEG Photo tool

Renames, reorients, resizes and/or timestamps jpg files with a unique
name based on camera model and taken date stored in the exif header. By
default imgtool updates the atime/mtime timestamps on a file to match
the exif header data.

## Usage

`imgtool [-h] [-R] [-c] [-d] [-f FORMAT] [-p Pattern] [-r] [-z GEOMETRY] [--help-geometry] [-v] [-V] [PATH [PATH ...]]`

## Program Options  ##

**-h|--help** - *Show help text*

**--help-geometry** - *Show help on resize geometry*

**-R|--recurse** - *Recurse into subdirectories*

**-c|--camera-names** - *Use embedded EXIF camera name to rename files.*

**-d|--dry-run** - *Show all actions to be performed without doing them. Also sets* **-v|--verbose**

**-f|--format** - *Time format string for filenaming in Python strftime format. Default is `’%Y%m%d%H%M%S'`*

**-p|--patern** - *Glob format pattern to search for files, e.g., *.jpg, default is *.[Jj][Pp][Gg] (see glob(3) and fnmatch(3))*

**-r|--auto-rotate** - *Automatically rotate image(s) based on EXIF Orientation tag. If not present, or set to 1 no rotation is performed*

**-z|--resize** - *Resize image(s) based on geometry. (See below)*

**-v|--verbose** - *Set verbose mode: Show operations as they are performed. If -d|--dry-run is also set, operations are shown without actually doing them.*

**-V|--version** - *Show program version and exit.*

## GEOMETRY

When using the -z or --resize option, a geometry must be specified. Geometry can be specified as a percentage of the overall image or as a pair of width:height.  Width and height are specified in pixels. If width is specified but no height, e.g., 1000: the image will be reized to a width of 1000px with a height calculated in relation to width to maintain the image aspect ratio. Conversely, height is specified without a width, e.g., :1000 will resize the image to 1000px high with a width calculated to maintain the aspect ratio.  When the width and height are spcecified no attempt to maintain the aspect ratio is made.


## WARNING

This tool is ALPHA. I have tested it in a limited environment and was
written to work with my photographs. It may even be destructive.
Backing up data is always a good idea before employing automatic tools
that can recurse directories. If you break something, you own the
remaining pieces.

## Author

Nicole Stevens (https://github.com/nicciniamh)

## Copyright

Copyright 2018 Nicole Stevens

## License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Commit message:

Updated with more information, to-do list and install instructions.

README.md, after:

# Imgtool JPEG Photo tool

I have a fairly large collection of digital photos I have taken with my phone and three different Nikon cameras. 

In an effort to have unqique file names, I wrote this tool. I also added the functionality of a couple other operatios I frequently do in post-processing.

A number of graphics tools will honor the Orientation tag in an image, however, on occasion, I find I need to manually rotate an image. More commonly, images get resized and renamed. Sometimes other tools are employed which modify the timestamp of the file, on the files system, which can disrupt sorting. (I use a date descending order in my file manager to show me the most recent photos) The default operation of imgtool is to set the timestamp of the files it finds with the date stamp in the photo's EXIF header. 

## To do list:
    For --format: Add the ability to specify other EIXF or file variables. 
    Add a Rotate geometry that specifies a rotation for any image.
    Add an output file/folder name. 


## Usage

`imgtool [-h] [-R] [-c] [-d] [-f FORMAT] [-p Pattern] [-r] [-z GEOMETRY] [--help-geometry] [-v] [-V] [PATH [PATH ...]]`

## Program Options  ##

**-h|--help** - *Show help text*

**--help-geometry** - *Show help on resize geometry*

**-R|--recurse** - *Recurse into subdirectories*

**-c|--camera-names** - *Use embedded EXIF camera name to rename files.*

**-d|--dry-run** - *Show all actions to be performed without doing them. Also sets* **-v|--verbose**

**-f|--format** - *Time format string for filenaming in Python strftime format. Default is `’%Y%m%d%H%M%S'`*

**-p|--patern** - *Glob format pattern to search for files, e.g., *.jpg, default is *.[Jj][Pp][Gg] (see glob(3) and fnmatch(3))*

**-r|--auto-rotate** - *Automatically rotate image(s) based on EXIF Orientation tag. If not present, or set to 1 no rotation is performed*

**-z|--resize** - *Resize image(s) based on geometry. (See below)*

**-v|--verbose** - *Set verbose mode: Show operations as they are performed. If -d|--dry-run is also set, operations are shown without actually doing them.*

**-V|--version** - *Show program version and exit.*

## GEOMETRY

When using the -z or --resize option, a geometry must be specified. Geometry can be specified as a percentage of the overall image or as a pair of width:height.  Width and height are specified in pixels. If width is specified but no height, e.g., 1000: the image will be reized to a width of 1000px with a height calculated in relation to width to maintain the image aspect ratio. Conversely, height is specified without a width, e.g., :1000 will resize the image to 1000px high with a width calculated to maintain the aspect ratio.  When the width and height are spcecified no attempt to maintain the aspect ratio is made.


## WARNING

This tool is ALPHA. I have tested it in a limited environment and was
written to work with my photographs. It may even be destructive.
Backing up data is always a good idea before employing automatic tools
that can recurse directories. If you break something, you own the
remaining pieces.

## Author

Nicole Stevens (https://github.com/nicciniamh)

## Copyright

Copyright 2018 Nicole Stevens

## License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may
not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain
a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

# Installation

To run the installer script, run bash install.sh 

The installer script looks for PATH and MANPATH to present installation directories. Proper permisions (e.g, sudo) must be obtained first. Alternatively the script can be copied anywhere and execute be set (chmod 755). The man page, imgtool.1, can be put in man1 on manpath.
