# Imgtool - JPEG Photo tool

## Descrtiption 

imgtool is a tool for dating, renaming, organizing, resizing, rotating
and thumbnailing images based on the information stored in their EXIF
header. This is to aid in the processing and organizing of digital
photography images.

## Background

I have a fairly large collection of digital photos I have taken with my
phone and three different Nikon cameras.

In an effort to have unqique file names, I wrote this tool. I also added
the functionality of a couple other operations I frequently do in post-
processing.

A number of graphics tools will honor the Orientation tag in an image,
however, on occasion, I find I need to manually rotate an image. More
commonly, images get resized and renamed. Sometimes other tools are
employed which modify the timestamp of the file, on the files system,
which can disrupt sorting. (I use a date descending order in my file
manager to show me the most recent photos) The default operation of
imgtool is to set the timestamp of the files it finds with the date
stamp in the photo's EXIF header.

Files can be moved (or copied if to a different device) to another
directory. The naming can have embedded exif data just like the format
option. This would allow creation of a directory structure based on
image data. E.g., `~/Photos/%Y-%m-%d .` will create a tree of
directories based on the EXIF (or file) Date/Time. Any subdirectory
trees are maintained.

*If an output directory is specified, and, no other renaming is done,
for operations such as dating or resizing, the file is **copied** to
the output directory instead of renaming.*

## Digital Photography Images

Files created by digital photography have a header built-in called
*Exhangeabe Image Format* or EXIF (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exif)
header. There is a lot of information that can be in this header that
relates to the photograph, when it was taken, sometimes where it was
taken, camera settings, camera model, etc. This tool extracts this
information and uses it to create unique names for photography files,
rotate them, etc.

